I teach at a primary school, ma'am.
Every year, on the Day of War Invalids and Martyrs,
my school organizes for
parents and students to participate in
cleaning and beautifying the martyrs' cemetery in the commune.
However, I only know how to explain to
them the meaning of this activity as
showing gratitude to the
heroic martyrs. I don't know how to explain to
them the meaning of this in Buddhist philosophy,
ma'am, and
what kind of karmic results we will receive
in future lives from sowing these good deeds. I hope you can explain to me that
sowing seeds of gratitude
brings great blessings,
even though it's a cemetery of
heroic martyrs. We go there to
clean and offer incense,
but we still receive great blessings.
This has a
spiritual aspect to it. We must understand
that when we go to a spiritual place,
we must have spiritual knowledge.
We can't just use
worldly knowledge to go anywhere.
When dealing with the spiritual world, we must
have spiritual knowledge.  If that's the case,
you just need to say that today,
because of you, the students and
we have achieved peace.
We are
very grateful to you, and we are
here to clean the cemetery for you. That's all.
But if you pray for the souls of the
martyrs to find peace, you
must add a vow, and within that vow, there must be a virtuous act.
Do you understand? That is, when we make a
vow, we must have a virtuous act.
For example, "Uncle, follow me so I can help
you stop starving." To stop starving, you must have the virtue of spending money to buy food. So, when you pray for the souls of the martyrs to find peace, you must create merit. Here, you should also guide the
children to clean the martyrs' graves and pray in the same way. Then
they will receive
great blessings because they will have the opportunity to do
things that benefit others, making
others grateful.
So, when we come to light
incense for the heroic martyrs,
we must understand the noble sacrifice
of these martyrs.  Our heroes must
understand the hardships and suffering of the
martyrs. So when you take the children to see this,
you must use history to talk about
the suffering of the martyrs and
relate it to them. Ask them, "
Can you endure going hungry for a meal?" They might say, "
No." Then you should ask, "Now, imagine the martyrs
enduring hardships like eating thorns and burning herbs, spending their
days climbing forests and wading through streams.
Can you endure that?" They might
say, "No." Then they
might say, "Do you admire them?" They might say, "Yes, I admire them." Because it is
because of the hardships and sacrifices of the
martyrs that you have peace
today. Otherwise, you would
still be living under the French, Chinese, and Japanese
attacks. Then you would only be fleeing from
chaos. You might say, "I'm afraid of chaos." They might say, "Yes, I'm
afraid." And if you are afraid, then you must shout, "
We are grateful for the sacrifices of the martyrs! We thank the martyrs!" And
nurture your patriotism
by sharing stories about your heroes.  The
heroic martyrs came to you so
that
you could understand, and
then I explained a little about
karma. If we create good karma
today, and are grateful, then in the future
we will also become
strong-willed people, heroes, people who
bring happiness to many
others on the new front. The heroic martyrs
go to the front to protect the country,
and you students will become
soldiers, heroes. For example, in
Vietnam now, we protect the
environment, protect plants, protect
clean food, protect peace, and
you will do many scientific projects to
contribute to the country. Are you
happy? Yes, you are happy! That's
how I will share this with you when
you go to
clean the cemetery for the heroic martyrs. I want
you to know that as
Vietnamese people, we
must truly live out Vietnamese history.
We are
Buddhists, but we...  We must always
remember that in
Buddhism, when we eat, we remember those who helped us. The
monks read that when you hold a bowl of rice,
remember the kind of person who helped you. And when we have
peace, we must remember those who helped us.
That is the mark of a true Buddhist disciple. A
true Buddhist disciple must have
such a great heart.
[music]